README.md, before:

# Raspberry Pi Pico W Wi-Fi Scanner

## Overview
This project uses a Raspberry Pi Pico W to scan for Wi-Fi networks and display the results both on the serial console and through LED indicators. The onboard LED (connected to the Wi-Fi module) lights up during each scan, while an LED connected to GP5 blinks once for each network found.

## Features
- **Wi-Fi Network Scanning**: Detects all available Wi-Fi networks in range
- **Detailed Network Information**: Displays SSID, signal strength (RSSI), channel, and security type
- **Visual Feedback**: Uses LEDs to indicate scanning status and network count
- **Command-line Workflow**: Uses rshell and minicom instead of Thonny IDE

## Hardware Requirements
- Raspberry Pi Pico W
- LED connected to GP5 (with appropriate resistor to ground)
- USB cable for power and data connection

## Software Requirements
- MicroPython firmware for Raspberry Pi Pico W
- `rshell` for file management
- `minicom` (Linux/macOS) or PuTTY (Windows) for serial monitoring

## Hardware Setup
1. Connect an LED to GP5 of the Raspberry Pi Pico W with a suitable resistor (220-330Ω) to ground
2. The onboard LED (connected to the "LED" pin) will be used automatically

## Installation

### 1. Install MicroPython on the Pico W
- Download the latest MicroPython firmware for the Pico W from [micropython.org](https://micropython.org/download/rp2-pico-w/)
- Hold the BOOTSEL button on the Pico W and connect it to your computer via USB
- The Pico W should appear as a USB drive (named `RPI-RP2`)
- Drag the `.uf2` firmware file to the `RPI-RP2` drive
- The Pico W will automatically reboot with MicroPython installed

### 2. Install Required Tools

#### For Linux/macOS:
```bash
# Install rshell for file management
pip install rshell

# Install minicom for serial monitoring
sudo apt install minicom    # For Debian/Ubuntu
# or
sudo brew install minicom   # For macOS with Homebrew
```

#### For Windows:
```bash
# Install rshell for file management
pip install rshell

# For serial monitoring, download and install PuTTY from:
# https://www.putty.org/
```

## Usage

### Uploading the Script

#### Using rshell:
```bash
# Connect to the Pico W (replace /dev/ttyACM0 with your device's port)
rshell -p /dev/ttyACM0

# Inside rshell, copy the script to the Pico W
cp test-1.py /pyboard/

# Optionally, rename to main.py to run automatically on boot
cp test-1.py /pyboard/main.py

# List files to confirm upload
ls /pyboard

# Exit rshell
exit
```

#### Finding your device port:
- **Linux/macOS**: Run `ls /dev/tty*` and look for something like `/dev/ttyACM0` or `/dev/ttyUSB0`
- **Windows**: Check Device Manager under "Ports (COM & LPT)" for a COM port (e.g., COM3)

### Running the Script

#### Method 1: Using minicom (Linux/macOS):
```bash
# Connect to the Pico W's serial console
minicom -D /dev/ttyACM0 -b 115200

# In the REPL (>>>), run:
exec(open('test-1.py').read())

# To exit minicom: Ctrl+A, then X, then Enter
```

#### Method 2: Using PuTTY (Windows):
1. Open PuTTY
2. Select "Serial" connection type
3. Enter your COM port (e.g., COM3)
4. Set Speed to 115200
5. Click "Open"
6. In the REPL (>>>), run: `exec(open('test-1.py').read())`

#### Method 3: Using rshell's REPL:
```bash
# Connect with rshell
rshell -p /dev/ttyACM0

# Enter the REPL
repl

# Execute the script
exec(open('test-1.py').read())

# Exit the REPL: Ctrl+X
# Exit rshell: exit
```

#### Method 4: Auto-run on boot:
If you copied the script as `main.py`, it will run automatically every time the Pico W boots up.

### Stopping the Script
Press `Ctrl+C` to interrupt the running script.

## Understanding the Output

The script produces output like this:
```
Scanning for Wi-Fi networks...
Found 18 networks!

Network List:
------------------------------------------------------------
| SSID                             | RSSI     | Ch     | Security |
------------------------------------------------------------
| SSID_2_4                         | -68      | 1      | Unknown  |
| SSID_2_416281                    | -75      | 1      | Unknown  |
| SSID_2_4-G                       | -60      | 1      | Unknown  |
...
------------------------------------------------------------
```

- **SSID**: Network name (or "Hidden" for networks not broadcasting their SSID)
- **RSSI**: Signal strength in dBm (lower negative numbers indicate stronger signals)
- **Ch**: Wi-Fi channel
- **Security**: Security type (Open, WEP, WPA-PSK, WPA2-PSK, WPA/WPA2, or Unknown)

## LED Behavior
- **Onboard LED**: Lights up during each Wi-Fi scan
- **GP5 LED**: Blinks once for each network found (0.2s on, 0.2s off per blink)

## Troubleshooting

### No Serial Output
- Verify you're using the correct serial port
- Ensure the baud rate is set to 115200
- Check USB connections

### LEDs Not Working
- Verify the GP5 LED is connected correctly with a resistor to ground
- Ensure you're using the Pico W (not the regular Pico) as the code uses the Wi-Fi module

### Script Not Found
- Use `rshell ls /pyboard` to confirm the file was uploaded correctly
- Check for typos in the filename when using `exec(open())`

### Wi-Fi Not Scanning
- Ensure you're using the Pico W (not the regular Pico)
- Verify the MicroPython firmware is specifically for the Pico W

## Next Steps
- Connect to a specific Wi-Fi network
- Fetch weather data from an online API
- Display weather information using additional LEDs or sensors

## Resources
- [Raspberry Pi Pico W Documentation](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/raspberry-pi-pico.html)
- [MicroPython Documentation](https://docs.micropython.org/)
- [MicroPython Network Libraries](https://docs.micropython.org/en/latest/library/network.html)

Commit message:

Add internal temperature monitoring feature
- Implement temperature reading from RP2040's internal sensor
- Display temperature in Celsius before each Wi-Fi scan
- Update README with temperature monitoring documentation
- Add troubleshooting section for temperature readings
- Include reference to RP2040 datasheet for technical details

This enhancement adds environmental monitoring capabilities
to complement the Wi-Fi scanning functionality.

README.md, after:

# Raspberry Pi Pico W Wi-Fi Scanner

## Overview
This project uses a Raspberry Pi Pico W to scan for Wi-Fi networks and display the results both on the serial console and through LED indicators. The onboard LED (connected to the Wi-Fi module) lights up during each scan, while an LED connected to GP5 blinks once for each network found. Additionally, the project monitors and displays the internal temperature of the RP2040 chip.

## Features
- **Wi-Fi Network Scanning**: Detects all available Wi-Fi networks in range
- **Detailed Network Information**: Displays SSID, signal strength (RSSI), channel, and security type
- **Temperature Monitoring**: Reads and displays the internal temperature of the RP2040 chip
- **Visual Feedback**: Uses LEDs to indicate scanning status and network count
- **Command-line Workflow**: Uses rshell and minicom instead of Thonny IDE

## Hardware Requirements
- Raspberry Pi Pico W
- LED connected to GP5 (with appropriate resistor to ground)
- USB cable for power and data connection

## Software Requirements
- MicroPython firmware for Raspberry Pi Pico W
- `rshell` for file management
- `minicom` (Linux/macOS) or PuTTY (Windows) for serial monitoring

## Hardware Setup
1. Connect an LED to GP5 of the Raspberry Pi Pico W with a suitable resistor (220-330Ω) to ground
2. The onboard LED (connected to the "LED" pin) will be used automatically
3. The internal temperature sensor is built into the RP2040 chip and requires no additional wiring

## Installation

### 1. Install MicroPython on the Pico W
- Download the latest MicroPython firmware for the Pico W from [micropython.org](https://micropython.org/download/rp2-pico-w/)
- Hold the BOOTSEL button on the Pico W and connect it to your computer via USB
- The Pico W should appear as a USB drive (named `RPI-RP2`)
- Drag the `.uf2` firmware file to the `RPI-RP2` drive
- The Pico W will automatically reboot with MicroPython installed

### 2. Install Required Tools

#### For Linux/macOS:
```bash
# Install rshell for file management
pip install rshell

# Install minicom for serial monitoring
sudo apt install minicom    # For Debian/Ubuntu
# or
sudo brew install minicom   # For macOS with Homebrew
```

#### For Windows:
```bash
# Install rshell for file management
pip install rshell

# For serial monitoring, download and install PuTTY from:
# https://www.putty.org/
```

## Usage

### Uploading the Script

#### Using rshell:
```bash
# Connect to the Pico W (replace /dev/ttyACM0 with your device's port)
rshell -p /dev/ttyACM0

# Inside rshell, copy the script to the Pico W
cp test-1.py /pyboard/

# Optionally, rename to main.py to run automatically on boot
cp test-1.py /pyboard/main.py

# List files to confirm upload
ls /pyboard

# Exit rshell
exit
```

#### Finding your device port:
- **Linux/macOS**: Run `ls /dev/tty*` and look for something like `/dev/ttyACM0` or `/dev/ttyUSB0`
- **Windows**: Check Device Manager under "Ports (COM & LPT)" for a COM port (e.g., COM3)

### Running the Script

#### Method 1: Using minicom (Linux/macOS):
```bash
# Connect to the Pico W's serial console
minicom -D /dev/ttyACM0 -b 115200

# In the REPL (>>>), run:
exec(open('test-1.py').read())

# To exit minicom: Ctrl+A, then X, then Enter
```

#### Method 2: Using PuTTY (Windows):
1. Open PuTTY
2. Select "Serial" connection type
3. Enter your COM port (e.g., COM3)
4. Set Speed to 115200
5. Click "Open"
6. In the REPL (>>>), run: `exec(open('test-1.py').read())`

#### Method 3: Using rshell's REPL:
```bash
# Connect with rshell
rshell -p /dev/ttyACM0

# Enter the REPL
repl

# Execute the script
exec(open('test-1.py').read())

# Exit the REPL: Ctrl+X
# Exit rshell: exit
```

#### Method 4: Auto-run on boot:
If you copied the script as `main.py`, it will run automatically every time the Pico W boots up.

### Stopping the Script
Press `Ctrl+C` to interrupt the running script.

## Understanding the Output

The script produces output like this:
```
Starting Wi-Fi scanner...

Current temperature: 27.35°C
Scanning for Wi-Fi networks...
Found 18 networks!

Network List:
------------------------------------------------------------
| SSID                             | RSSI     | Ch     | Security |
------------------------------------------------------------
| SSID_2_4                         | -68      | 1      | Unknown  |
| SSID_2_416281                    | -75      | 1      | Unknown  |
| SSID_2_4-G                       | -60      | 1      | Unknown  |
...
------------------------------------------------------------
```

- **Temperature**: Internal temperature of the RP2040 chip in Celsius
- **SSID**: Network name (or "Hidden" for networks not broadcasting their SSID)
- **RSSI**: Signal strength in dBm (lower negative numbers indicate stronger signals)
- **Ch**: Wi-Fi channel
- **Security**: Security type (Open, WEP, WPA-PSK, WPA2-PSK, WPA/WPA2, or Unknown)

## LED Behavior
- **Onboard LED**: Lights up during each Wi-Fi scan
- **GP5 LED**: Blinks once for each network found (0.2s on, 0.2s off per blink)

## How the Temperature Sensor Works
The Raspberry Pi Pico W's RP2040 chip includes an internal temperature sensor connected to ADC4. The code:
1. Reads the raw ADC value
2. Converts it to voltage
3. Applies the formula from the RP2040 datasheet to calculate temperature
4. Displays the result in Celsius

Note that the temperature reading will be slightly higher than ambient temperature due to the heat generated by the chip itself.

## Troubleshooting

### No Serial Output
- Verify you're using the correct serial port
- Ensure the baud rate is set to 115200
- Check USB connections

### LEDs Not Working
- Verify the GP5 LED is connected correctly with a resistor to ground
- Ensure you're using the Pico W (not the regular Pico) as the code uses the Wi-Fi module

### Script Not Found
- Use `rshell ls /pyboard` to confirm the file was uploaded correctly
- Check for typos in the filename when using `exec(open())`

### Wi-Fi Not Scanning
- Ensure you're using the Pico W (not the regular Pico)
- Verify the MicroPython firmware is specifically for the Pico W

### Incorrect Temperature Readings
- The internal temperature sensor is not calibrated for high precision
- Readings may vary by a few degrees from actual temperature
- The chip temperature will be higher than ambient temperature

## Next Steps
- Connect to a specific Wi-Fi network
- Fetch weather data from an online API
- Add external sensors for more accurate environmental monitoring
- Display information on an LCD or OLED screen

## Resources
- [Raspberry Pi Pico W Documentation](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/raspberry-pi-pico.html)
- [MicroPython Documentation](https://docs.micropython.org/)
- [MicroPython Network Libraries](https://docs.micropython.org/en/latest/library/network.html)
- [RP2040 Datasheet](https://datasheets.raspberrypi.com/rp2040/rp2040-datasheet.pdf)
